---
layout: post
title: "Breeze"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

##BREEZE

`Breeze is a javascript library that helps to manage data in rich client applications.`

###Headline feature:
Bussiness data objects  errors your server side models, these properties bing to UI control so UI updates when the data models update, each object know when it has changed and what has changed

Query is a javascript query language with filters, ordering and paging.

Save one entry or batch of entries in as a single transaction. Batch a mix of entity type(customer,orders,line-orders) and data operations(inserts, deletes, updates)

Cache data to the client to reduce trips to the server and refresh as needed. Query a cache as you query to server. Save the cache locally and run offline; sync changes hen reconnected.

Extent the model with custom methods, properties and events.

DOUBT: Also if the changes have been made on the local copy and it has been cached sous the changes in the UI reflect immediately.??

###Core concepts:
You create a Breeze entityManager in your javascript client to access and cache model data. Meta data about your data models guides breeze in reshaping raw data as entires with properties and behavior.
EntityManger loads entries into cache from the remote persistence service. Bind UI controls to entity properties. You can new entities in to cache, updating existing properties and scheduling other entries to be deleted. periodically you save these pending changes in a batch back to the persistence service which stores them in the database as a single transaction.


###EntityManager:
The breeze entity manager is gateway both between backend persistence service and a cache of entities that you’re working on locally.
You ask your EntityManager to execute queries  and save pending changes. entityManager builds request and handles the asynchronous communications with the backend service.


###Data Binding and Observability:

Breeze applications mostly rely on data binding to coordinate the flow of values betweena Breeze entity and row widget on the screen.
Data binding can be a push of new value tot he UI when  it detects that an entity property has been changed. Most binding frameworks detect the change by listening tot he property changed event, which means that the entity property must be observable.
Breeze entity properties are observable. You write your model object.

`Breeze currently supports Angular JS `

DOUBT: What work does grunt do?

we write a query to fetch some data and them we execute that query and it asynchronously returns a promise, success or failure and both are handled., breeze resolves this query not http get request

The query results are returned in an json array and Entitymanager reshapes into entities and merge it in to the cache and filly the entities to the promise element in and forwards to the caller success call back

###Save in breeze:
A breeze application adds, modifies and deletes all the netters in helped in entity managers cache.it calls a save changes function which again return a promise to check if the change is valid as the change is validates and returns a success json or failure json
As persistence server all the changes are run in a transaction and thus if all succeed and valid then only it is success..

###Metadata:
Breeze metadata describes entity types and relationships among entities in a data model . breeze needs this meta data to communicate with the persistence service during query and save , to create new entities in the client and to navigate among entities in cache

###Persistence service:
Breeze make http requests of a persistence service that typically resides on a remote server. The breeze client can support to any data service which supports json api.


###ABOUT BREEZE ANGULAR:
Breeze and angular work well if u configure breeze to use anglers $q as promise and $http Angular ajax component . Breeze Lab library is for angular integration.

DOUBT: Where have we configured the breeze.angular?
Promises in breeze.angular:
Breeze and angular uses the promises to asynchronously chain the methods calls and  such as sequencing of data queries.

Doubt: What are we using the Q promisees or the $q as in case of angular.?

we have to use $scope.$apply.

for exceptions there is a method .catch to catch the exceptions if any


###BREEZE Validations:

Breeze entities have a build in model level validations driven by meta data that describes the client side validations rules for production and entities. Breeze invokes these rules automatically during the four phases of life cycle.      (attached, queried, property changed, saved ). You can also invoke these rules periodically.

you can get validations errors by entityAspect.getValidationErrors()

`zValidate` is a directive that supports validating.
zValidate directive is defined in [breeze.directive.js] (https://github.com/Breeze/breeze.js.labs/blob/master/breeze.directives.js)
 The directive itself handles the appearance of the red Astrick next to the field that is mandatory.

 ##Validators:
 Breeze monitors the changes and updates the validation errors for each property accordingly. Angular updates the property with every keystroke so we get an immediate visual response.

 `configureMetaDataStore` has three steps:
 1. Create new validator called 'twitter'
 2. Add the person entity type to the metadata.
 3. Discover and register all required properties with a 'required' validation.

 firstName:  { dataType: DT.String,
               validators: [
                   Validator.required(),
                   Validator.maxLength({maxLength: 20})] }

                   we generally use a fake person or create a new user, as there is no connection with the server.Thus we have meta data, that has information about the
                   datatype of entities, their relations and validations.

                    The directive has a custom message for the error we can also customise the error function zDirectivesConfig service (included in breeze.directives.js)
open app.js file and find
angular.module('app', ['breeze.directives'])
  .config(['zDirectivesConfigProvider', configDirective]);
`Breeze entities come equipped, out-of-the-box with a metadata-driven, extensible, model validation mechanism which is both more powerful and easier to use. Skip the markup validation and go straight to the source ... with zValidate.`

Also some limitations of this directive include that we have to revise the directive to incorporate the changes that we need for our requirements.

### Breeze queries using POST

Object graphs are too large to fit in urls, so we need POST method to pass the query params. So we update the BreezeAjaxAdapter to allow the HTTP POST to construct the queries.
We use Jquery's Ajax Implementation and Angular's $http service , to use POST instead of GET

Get [breeze.ajaxpost.js] (https://github.com/Breeze/breeze.js.labs/blob/master/breeze.ajaxpost.js)

You then include the script in you index.html file.
` breeze.ajaxPost(); // wraps the now-current $http adapter
     //... your service logic`

     POST method implementation:
     var query = breeze.EntityQuery.from('SimilarCustomersPOST')
            .withParameters({
                $method: 'POST',
                $encoding: 'JSON',
                $data: { CompanyName: 'Hilo Hattie', ContactName: 'Donald', City: 'Duck',
                             Country: 'USA', Phone: '808-234-5678' }
            });

### Get entityGraph from the cache

entityManager.getEntityGraph

var query = breeze.EntityQuery.from('SimilarCustomersPOST')
       .withParameters({
           $method: 'POST',
           $encoding: 'JSON',
           $data: { CompanyName: 'Hilo Hattie', ContactName: 'Donald', City: 'Duck',
                        Country: 'USA', Phone: '808-234-5678' }
       });

  graph uses the deleted entities

graph = getEntityGraph(someOrder, 'OrderDetails')
        .filter(function(entity) {
            return entity.entityAspect.entityState !== breeze.EntityState.Deleted;
        });


Save graph of changes entities
/* A history of changes to the order and its details */

// The full graph, changed and unchanged
var graph = getEntityGraph(someOrder, 'OrderDetails');

// Filter for changes only
var changes = graph.filter(function(entity) {
    return !entity.entityAspect.entityState.isUnchanged();
    // return entity.entityAspect.entityState !== breeze.EntityState.Unchanged; // or ...
    // return entity.entityAspect.entityState.isAddedModifiedOrDeleted(); // or
});

// Lets export the changes first ... for fun (not necessary)
var exported = em.exportEntities(changes , false);

// Now save just the changes to this one order and its details
em.saveChanges(changes);


###getErrorMessage

function save() {
       return manager.saveChanges().then(saveSucceeded, saveFailed);

       function saveSucceeded(result) {
            logSuccess('Saved data', result, true);
       }

       function saveFailed(error) {
            var msg = 'Save failed: ' +
                  breeze.saveErrorMessageService.getErrorMessage(error);
            error.message = msg;
            logError(msg, error);
            throw error;
        }
    }

### [breeze meta helpers] (https://github.com/Breeze/breeze.js.labs/blob/master/breeze.metadata-helper.js)

###saveQueuing.js

###Breeze Angular Q promises

A BreezeJS asynchronous method returns a promise, typically a promise to deliver some data from a remote service (or an error if the service request fails).

`The Breeze Angular Service tells Breeze to use Angular's $q for promises and to use Angular's $httpfor ajax calls.`

var app = angular.module('app', [
   // ... other dependencies ...
   'breeze.angular.q' // tells breeze to use $q instead of Q.js
]);
 
app.run(['$q','use$q', function ($q, use$q) {
       use$q($q);
}]);

Usage:
var promise = entityManager
       .executeQuery(query)
       .then(successCallback, failCallback);


